welcome to topcast and the newsletter to
both I was going to only release this as
a newsletter and then I realized well
look this is going on for so long I'm
going to put this into my normal regular
topcast feed so welcome to both sets of
listeners people who listen to my
newsletter people who listen to Talk
cast and apologies to the top
castlessness this is not about a book
this is not about a particular issue
this is literally going to be me
Meandering through my Twitter feed over
the last few days let me explain more
it's a weekend spent on Twitter I ended
last newsletter with an observation
about people quitting Twitter although I
cannot properly know someone else's
subjective experience at any time
including what they experience on
Twitter I did implore anyone else
considering leaving the platform to not
delete their entire account deleting it
seemed to me and though this might sound
dramatic was a little like burning a
book your book might be long it might be
short but it is a record and some others
might appreciate it in particular this
particular book of tweets that is your
own stream and set of threads involves
conversations with others and those
conversations are left depleted and
confusing with your deletion if one
simply leaves Twitter never to return
then all your upsides are maintained and
none of our downsides are obtained it's
just a common courtesy call it a
kindness if you will you aren't hurt by
text you leave behind any more than you
were hurt by emails you regret to have
sent or sentences in books you might
have rephrased so that's one issue with
Twitter the other issue is the rampant
pathologizing of the platform this
occurs both on the right and left
politically there's Furious agreement
that Twitter can be damaging to the
Social and psychological fabric I've
always resisted the impulse to readily
agree with these sentiments about any
social media platform I really do think
more speech is better more creativity is
better I really do think one can have
fun on the platforms and ignore the
trolls the overall good of these
platforms outweighs the evil better to
have creative children engaged in
dancing and yeah political Activision we
might not agree with then doing what
they used to do in the past not being
creative not being engaged not using
their minds in the same way that they
are now for me when it comes to trolls
if someone is genuinely unpleasant I
don't block them I mute them even before
I heard Ricky Gervais say the same thing
I figured out myself that there was
something about the person at the other
end not knowing you were simply no
longer hearing them anymore
they were perhaps screaming Into The
Ether tweeting into the void I thought
to myself well if they're doing that in
an attempt to get a rise out of me
they're not using that same energy to go
after someone else now it's a win for me
and a win for my imaginary protectorate
it may even be a win for the troll who
eventually realizes that such an
approach does not always bear fruit so
yeah that's why I mute rather than Block
in general no one knows they've been
muted and they can just keep on tweeting
at me and tweeting at me forever more so
my experiences largely positive but some
people apparently have a terrible
experience online they keep coming back
I find this strange of course I am not
tweeting regularly to enumerate the
evils committed by let's say the deeply
religious to put the majority of the
planet off side at times
but I have been known to go pretty hard
on anything politically to the left
Divine rant yes I'm joking about that I
do regard her as being off axis as I
like to say but most of all of course I
do not have the number of followers that
those who complain about the platform
most tend to do if you've got more than
a million followers of course your
experience is going to be wildly
different from someone with less than 10
percent of that much less than one
percent of that but I wanted to find out
if I could do something as my natural
self to have a broadly negative
experience on Twitter simply by being on
Twitter
so I did a private first person
experiment on myself Twitter followers
of mine might not have noticed anything
different I suppose I checked Twitter
three or four times a day in general
there are specific times when I get up
and make my first cup of tea of the
morning I take tea with Twitter when
editing my podcast it's often a very
long process and I'll take a break with
Twitter when I watch the half hour
commercial news in Australia at 6 PM yes
I am one of the people that still does
this I'll simultaneously check Twitter
paying only half attention to both
things when I'm cooking dinner my
partner sometimes plays loud music so at
those times we're not talking to each
other and then I'll also check Twitter
invariably getting something on the
iPhone that needs to be wet wiped off
later but if I'm writing if I'm
recording or if I'm reading which are
the other three crucial aspects of
making a podcast besides the editing I
cannot not read Twitter I don't like my
flow broken when I write including when
I write down just some points for a
podcast much less a script which I do at
times such as I've written right now for
this when I'm recording of course it's
completely out of the question that I
would check Twitter and reading a book
is the same the books I read tend to
make arguments that might take a Chapter
to reach the central conclusion of if
one gives up or takes a break part way
through by checking Twitter one can lose
the gist of things so all of that said
what did I do differently recently what
was this experiment well this weekend
just passed I spent almost the entire
weekend and I'll include the Friday in
that with Twitter Australia was playing
against Argentina in the soccer or
football World Cup I knew I'd have to be
up earlier than normal if I wanted to
catch the match and I did so my friends
and I were watching it together
virtually and so because of this
football match my regular weekend
schedule was out of schedule and so I
made the decision on the Friday well I
just do less of my usual stuff and spend
more time on Twitter lots more time
tweeting and reading tweets and let's
just see what comes back would my
experience be different would it be
negative I wouldn't do anything
deliberately provocative or silly or out
of character I just wanted to do much
more of what I'd normally do would the
negativity increase as well surely it's
a numbers game however much negativity
comes at one on Twitter per unit time
well the overall total of negativity is
going to increase with increased use but
is it not canceled out by all that fun
and positivity well if we're led to
believe the common wisdom on this sort
of thing human beings are supposed to
have something like 10 compliments
canceled by one critique or insult
I can't imagine that's true in some
cases after all it's going to depend on
the strength of the complements and the
insults at nine that's a nice shirt
you've got on compliments in a row is
not going to make up for the one
everything you've ever done with your
life is a waste of time and does nothing
but make the world a worse place kind of
insult although I guess that ladder is
two insults but you get my point so
commencing with a tweet I sent on Friday
I spent the next three days tweeting far
more than usual would it have some
terrible effect on my mind would I see
the social Decay that's out there might
I become that dreaded addicted to social
media unable to put the phone down and
shaking if I didn't get a fix within the
next hour well this is a Chronicle of my
experience for the purpose of this
newsletter I'm simply going to go
through the tweets and replies in
question
in the podcast here now if you go to the
text version of the newsletter I'm not
going to put everything there I'm not
going to put the tweets there and my
comments on the tweets it'll just be too
long I just want to be able to describe
the context of the tweet and give some
more opinions and Reflections on the
tweets that I sent or the tweets that I
liked and the threads that I
participated in that's all being done
here now for this audio podcast but you
won't get that on the regular newsletter
text form for what it's worth this uh
could be kind of a fun format for a
regular part of the podcast or
newsletter or even a live stream as I
sometimes do but as someone chatted me
recently very gently on Twitter I've
already got too many product streams and
it's hard for followers to keep up I
agree how do you think I feel
anyways I am having fun doing all of
this stuff otherwise well I wouldn't do
it that anyone pays any attention at all
is a bonus so I'm just going to reflect
off the cuff on the tweets that I'm
about to mention the rule I set myself
here is to discuss any threads I can
contributed to obviously that includes
all those that I started and any tweet
that I liked I should say I used to use
the like button as a bookmark and I
really did go back and check on those
bookmarks again that's a function of
being a podcast of my kind I find
valuable stuff online on Twitter and
sometimes I want to go back and to see
what I read on Twitter what sparked my
interest and then I can mention in the
podcast that's why I use the like button
in this way but I have slightly changed
my approach to this one reason is that
in Sam Harris's explanation of why he
quit Twitter he also explained that he
used a program to mass ban anyone who
liked a particular tweet that was
critical of him at some point that seems
like a clever idea after all you get rid
of a lot of people who don't
particularly like you and are probably
going to be trolls now I didn't get
included in any of Sam's Mass bands as
Sam Actually followed me for years but I
did sometimes used to like by which I
mean bookmarked tweet with which I did
not agree I could imagine I could have
been part of Sam's Mass ban because he
would have thought that I literally
liked what I'd liked although I don't
regard the like function as meaning
literally like I always interpret it as
well something that I'd like to read
later on or like to come back to not you
know have an affection for but that's
just me okay so I'm idiosyncratic in
that way you know really I often would
like things and this wasn't the most
common way in which I'd like things but
I I did used to like things that I
thought well that's a nice statement of
a perspective I I think is completely
false but I can understand why people
think it's plausible and so you know I'd
end up bringing it up on the podcast and
that would be one of the functions that
I would use the like button for but I
can see how people would misinterpret it
and of course I now realize as well this
has been going on forever that Twitter
kind of uses the like button as as a
retweet it tells you what other people
have liked which I think is pretty silly
you know if I want other people to see a
particular tweet then I'll retweet it I
don't really want anyone to see my likes
but you know I'm not in charge of
Twitter anyways without further Ado
let's begin with these tweets that I
want to talk about and more broadly what
my overall experience was like over the
three days of spending more time on the
platform than usual so the first tweet
that formed part of my more than regular
time spent on Twitter was in response to
a petri kajanda who used chat GP CT
which is this artificial intelligence
bot that can write essays and write
poems and write screenplays and well you
can talk to it and it's extremely
impressive
it's not creative but it's just
extremely impressive and being able to
automatically generate large sections of
text which are coherent and they can
rhyme and they can be funny it can tell
you jokes it's it's amazing but I don't
think it's creative and I'll come back
to the reasons why I think that I think
that because it's just mashing up
pre-existing text that it's already got
it's not creating new knowledge okay
listeners to topcast will know what I'm
talking about anyway Petri sent me an
essay that the computer had written I
say computer the program had written the
chat GPT had written in answer to the
question that he put to it which is what
are the main arguments for the
Multiverse and who made them and it's a
nice essay but what Petri asked me was I
wonder what grade Brett would give these
essays in his class and in response I
just said quote
in a class I escaped having to do that
the technique was to make notes and have
a conversation with the student about it
as a marker where I never met the
student involved it would depend
entirely upon the criteria that the
students had access to against which it
was graded okay so let me unpack that a
little bit yes so I was a teacher for a
long time and I was also and what's
called an external marker and so I would
grade essays from students all around
the world who were trying to gain entry
to University and this was one of the
methods that was used by the
universities to determine whether or not
they were sufficiently knowledgeable
qualified had the background knowledge
in order to get into University you know
that kind of thing but aside from that
situation which is where what happened
was I used to Mark these things called
theory of knowledge essays and the
theory of knowledge is well not really
like the theory of knowledge as I
explain it
it's irrelevant it's irrelevant to what
I want to talk about here and now but
what we would do is the organization
that these students were writing the
essay for were quite upfront about
here's what you need to do in order to
get an A here's what you need to do in
order to get a b and so on and so forth
okay I won't go into the details but
they'll provide the grading criteria for
the students and Sample essays and you
know examples of what it took to get an
A and so a sufficiently committed
student could practice and learn how to
get a better and better essay so as a
marker all I had to do was to compare
the essay to the criteria yes yes people
are screaming at the audio right now
saying there's all sorts of problems
with this I completely agree with you
but in terms of that kind of model it's
better than some where you may not even
have a criteria where it's the whim of
the market here in fact not only did you
have the criteria which was made quite
explicit and people were trained in how
to interpret the Criterion Inc including
the students who were trained in how to
understand the criteria and as I say
sample essays but also the essays were
sometimes double and triple marked they
were checked and checked again and the
student would always have the option
where they received their grade back at
the end of this whole process of having
the thing remarked now just in case to
check whether or not they really
deserved the grade they got I say
deserved you understand what I mean by
that so that's one situation on the
other hand as a teacher in the classroom
where I actually taught this stuff well
I never really had to mark an essay I
never had to grade one properly
and I did have problems and you know I
would debate with people about the
conflict of interest that you would have
as teacher and marker this was often
what happens it's sort of what happened
in the classroom you're supposed to be
training students in order to become
better helping them learn that kind of
thing and simultaneous continuously
grading them so that there is a conflict
there which is inherent in many many
Educational Systems but I managed to
largely Escape that in this particular
situation so I could get away with not
grading things so as I said to Petri
well when it came to grading this open
AI thing in the classroom I wouldn't
but if I needed to I would need a
criteria you know on what basis are you
grading this you know what what is the
criteria I'm using in order to give it
an A or a b or a c or an F if I'm just
looking at the facts well I tend to give
this particular essay an F for a couple
of reasons one of the essays he included
a couple of essays
one of the SIC also included for me was
to ask the AI he asked the AI this
question write an essay of papyrian
epistemology explaining its main points
and counter arguments in detail now I
won't read the essay but my commentary
was that
I might have to fail chat GPT the open
AI for apparently not doing the required
readings because well to quote just part
of the essay the essay said counter
arguments to papyrian epistemology
include that the concept of
falsifiability is too narrow and that it
excludes many important theories and
ideas that cannot be proven false end
quote so the the chat bot has said that
that counts as a counter argument that a
counter argument to Preparing
epistemology is the concept of
falsifiability is too narrow yeah you
know funnily enough this is precisely
what well every critique of Papa has
ever kind of said now to mention names
this is what Sean Carroll has said this
is what Sabine hosenfelder has said this
is what various other philosophers not
to mention physicists have said over
time that falsifiability is a naive
Criterion in order to determine whether
or not something meets the meets the
standard of being scientific or not
Papa never said that all it takes is
falsifiability David Deutsch has
underlined this and tried to explain
this it's a criteria of demarcation not
a criteria of meaning any crank with a
falsifiable theory about how the world
is going to end tomorrow has a
falsifiable theory that does not make it
scientific and you would know this if
you actually read popper so chat GPT
there who's writing an essay about
palparian epistemology I would fail for
not having done the readings they
haven't really read proper they can't
possibly write an essay on popular
epistemology without reading popular in
epistemology it doesn't it doesn't meet
my standard if you say well I read a
critique of paprina epistemology I read
what Sean Carroll said about preparing
epistemology and now I'm going to write
an essay about it well it's not good
enough I want quotes from poppy himself
extensively and in context same
falsifiability is naive or in efficient
okay fine you can say that but that's
not popular in epistemology that's not
what pop popper never said that
falsifiability is sufficient in science
far from it he understood it was about
explanations just as David Deutsch's
underlined that it's a bad explanation
David Deutsch went further but you read
popper and he knows he talks about the
importance and power of explanations in
well not just science but everywhere
it's about you have explanatory power
okay so that's the first tweet a nice
positive exchange a fun exchange too and
you know I'd already begun using this
chat GPT thing this is fantastic program
online to to write my own essays and
we'll come to get it to write some
essays for me and poems for me and plays
for me and and jokes for me this was all
fun stuff so we'll come back to that
next chronologically is is me responding
to someone else who has pointed out that
the Jews were trending the Jews were
trending just this that that phrase the
Jews it was trending on Twitter for a
couple of days in fact over and over
again it came seems to come up and and
this person said quote
the Jews every damn day the obsession is
unreal I can't imagine living my life
like that waking up to a world obsessed
with attacking my faith and identity and
it's quite quite right quite right this
person is from Iraq I guess they are
Islamic as well so a brave person saying
that actually in fact she calls herself
Miss Iraq I wonder if she she was a Miss
Iraq at some point Perhaps Perhaps and
she also says that she's a Zionist so
well done her anyway what I've said I've
I've quoted her tweet and I have said
myself quote
David Deutsch explains the obsession as
the impulse to preserve the legitimacy
of hurting Jews no one knows precisely
why the pattern exists search David's
tweets for more instances and I've
linked it there to one of David's tweets
talking about the pattern the pattern is
this phenomenon that David Deutsch has
observed he has tried to explain this
Obsession that people have with the Jews
over time and it it's a pattern because
it seems to come up if not periodically
at least sporadically now and again
generation after generation perhaps more
frequently than you know once per
generation
but it has come up throughout well let's
just say the entire history of the
existence of the Jews this it explains
anti-Semitism but it's broader than that
it explains also just the obsession the
special Focus that Jewish people have
fixated upon them from one day wants to
say every other culture that exists even
cultures that never come across Jewish
people why is this what's going on well
David Deutsch has turned his
considerable mind and creativity to this
I did a course with David on this a
couple of years ago with the historian
Richard Landis let's just say that
whatever you think the cause is okay it
might be jealousy or Envy of the success
of the Jewish people the state of Israel
whatever you think it is it's wrong okay
it does not account for the pattern
David has refutations of the reasons why
those explanations the explanations that
everyone thinks they know can't actually
be true scapegoating is another one you
know is mentioned scapegoating that you
know well it's possible but it's it's
not a good explanation it's not a good
explanation of why the pattern exists no
one knows why the pattern exists no one
really knows why people are obsessed
with the Jews and the way that they are
why there is this special kind of
discrimination that exists in our world
that stands apart from other kinds of
discrimination it's not of the same kind
other kinds of discriminations seem to
fade away this one Fades and comes back
Fades and comes back it's an unusual
phenomenon and worth investigating worth
trying to understand so look up David
deutsche's tweets for the pattern he he
may be bringing out a book which will
touch on this at some point in the
future so we can look forward to that so
again that's another nice interaction on
Twitter not a nice topic but you know
it's it's nice to be able to explain
some of that what I think is crucially
important a Content that David Deutsch
delivers to us about well in particular
this kind of prejudice that exists it's
important to understand this kind of
thing moving on
um Elon Musk tweeted about his neuralink
device and he said it's ready for humans
well he's confident that the neurolink
device is ready for humans this is this
neuralink device is the brain implant
okay and so someone has responded uh
this person is at Willow the Wisp
and they've said this is insanely
dystopian to me we are meant to be human
not something else and a person I follow
and it follows me he calls himself
natural general intelligence at
real-time AI I can't remember your name
I'm sorry I wish people would use their
real names the same as Willow the Wisp
you know can't properly credit people
nonetheless um natural general
intelligence has said I think his name's
Matt anyway he he has said thoughts
about pacemakers prosthetics for missing
limbs hearing aids Etc and I've liked
that tweet and they're quite right quite
right
um you know the people who object to the
brain implant do they object to the
pacemaker do they object to Prosthetics
you know putting stuff in your body and
I've responded to that quote yes people
are Minds not bodies so even pocket
calculators and cars are add-ons that
creative minds use so yeah people are
particularly worried about you know the
technology brain interfaces we're
probably considered you're not even your
brain you're your mind and we don't know
exactly how the mind is there in the
brain but not all of the brain is mine
so if you've got a problem with your
brain then it just might help to have an
implant of some sort no one's going to
be forced one would hope to have a
neuralink thing but if you want a neural
link thing and it's got certain benefits
why not why should that be insanely
dystopian how does it stop you from
being human if it does stop you from
being human then so does a pocket
calculator stop you from being human
because it's giving you capacities that
no human without the pocket calculator
can achieve or broadly speaking okay so
that's that next Gad sad The
evolutionary psychologists who have
severe disagreements with when it comes
to his well almost his entire world yet
not quite but you know certainly his
academic area of evolutionary psychology
I think is well it's a complete scam
that aside gads had the person he's he's
a funny guy he's a brave person he's
willing to stand up against certain
political movements of our time that are
totalitarian and coercive and he's a
clear thinker even if he's got the wrong
ideas and I think he's one of these
people who take away the evolutionary
psychology nonsense and everything else
he says broadly speaking still makes
sense in fact it is it is only made more
clear and valuable by removing the
nonsense I said this recently about
Daniel Hannon Daniel Hannon is a great
defender of capitalism free trade
Freedom Liberty and so on but then he
throws on top of that the unnecessary
assumption that therefore evolutionary
psychology is real because our natural
evolved impulse is to be tribal and I
just think that's wrong or our natural
evolved impulse is to hoard stuff for
the winter like we're Bears or something
or other or squirrels but not we're
creative thinkers if we have a tendency
to hoard things for the winter then it's
a cultural meme it's not inherited in
our genes it might very well be in here
inherited by our culture and we might
learn these things as babies on mother's
knee I like to say and even then mum
might not be teaching us these things
explicitly it just comes to us via the
way in which language is constructed the
kind of conversations that Mum is having
and the reason mum is having those
conversations is because she was taught
certain things on her mother's knee and
so on going back generations and
generations but this is not to say any
of that knowledge any of that ideology
is coming by the genes which is the
reason why Daniel Hannon is wrong the
best explanation is it's coming via
language and various other inexplicit
means which are not genes okay just is
coming via some other method of learning
some of these deep cultural memes namely
altruism socialism that kind of thing
definitely are out there in society and
and they're very resistant to to be
being refuted let's say by better ideas
for reasons that well well beyond the
scope of this particular episode right
now but let's just say that you've got
anti-rational means operate
anti-rational memes operating and so on
but whatever the case it doesn't come
with either genes anyway Gad said Gad
said is responding to Kanye West Kanye
West is in the news because Kanye West
is becoming a notorious anti-semite
he thinks he wants to run for president
of the United States but as other people
have observed he appears to be having
what might be called a mental breakdown
in public okay all of that said
Kanye West appeared on a very famous
podcast called Tim cast and during that
podcast he he walked out he walked out
of the podcast because he brought up he
brought up the Jews he brought up the
Jews an English question rather rather
mildly I should say about about what
exactly he meant you know to try and
unpack what what his criticisms were the
Jews he walked out he he got upset he
had a hissy fit and he walked out of the
interview anyway so gadsat who's also a
podcaster prominent podcaster he has
tweeted at Kanye West and said hey quote
hey Kanye I'm a Lebanese Jew trying to
understand your animus towards the Jews
would love to have a conversation with
you on my show the sad truth one rule
it's a conversation not a Kanye West
monologue end quote okay fine fair
enough but I tweeted at Gad sad quote
but given the experience of Tim cast you
already know agreements rules social
mores or logic are not something here
Kanye West would respect so even if he
accepted your rule he's a person who
does not respect agreements as this
fictional philosopher observed and this
fictional philosopher is uh Arnold
Schwarzenegger and so there's this
famous scene from the movie Twins and uh
well this is the scene let me just play
it you have no respect for logic and I
have no respect for those with no
respect for logic you're a very stupid
person
up
okay so I don't agree with the implied
violence and I don't think uh it's
stupid person it's a stupid idea though
um stupid idea I don't think they're
stupid people there are stupid ideas
though stupid ideas so but but I agree
with the basic idea there that uh one
can have no respect for those with no
respect for logic in the sense that if
the person has already demonstrated
their and explicitly said or you know
behaved in such a way that they're not
going to respect logic then it's silly
of you it's illogical of you to persist
in trying to get them to respect logic
in some way shape or form let them come
around why waste time uh if God if Kanye
West is the person that walks out of
interviews when questioned very mildly
about something then he's that kind of
person he's demonstrated that so you'd
have to take steps in order to persuade
one that he's not going to do that and
it's not the first time he's done it by
the way no not the first time he's done
it but Gad said I don't know I'm
concerned that Gad said might just want
Kanye West on because it it does a lot
more for Gad said than what it was going
to do for Kanye West but again if you're
if you're an honest interlocutor you
have to accept that someone like Kanye
West is no longer worth platforming in
that way he's allowed to have his free
speech he can say all these are boring
things but do you want to help
and in terms of teaching him the error
of his wise does that need to be done
live on a podcast there are many
problems with this the central one of
which is if the person has already
demonstrated that they're not going to
adhere to agreements like come on my
podcast and have a conversation with me
if they're not going to stick to that
once they've said oh yeah that's what
I'll do then why would you go along and
think that things are going to be any
different for you isn't that sometimes
regarded as a definition of stupidity
trying the same thing over and again and
thinking you'll get a different outcome
next tweet I've responded to nivi who's
at nivi nivi and he has used the chat
GPT open AI artificial intelligence
Thing 2 quote write a scene where a
right-wing Republican and a woke liberal
go-kart shopping
and so dutifully the chat GPT has
written the script of what happens it's
worth reading just part of this well the
woke liberal is described as
walking over to the salesperson at one
point and saying excuse me she said
politely I'm interested in a fuel
efficient card do you have any options
in that regard but later in the script
the right-wing Republican is described
as well quote the man in the Maga hat
sneered at Maria those things are for
weaklings he said dismissively and at
the end of the script it's then said the
man in the Maga hat stormed off in
search of a bigger louder vehicle to
satisfy his need for attention so
clearly chat GPT thinks of woke liberals
as polite people while right-wing
Republicans wear Maga hats and are rude
so so that's that's a little telling
that's a little telling of some kind of
bias that of course tech people tend not
to be too concerned about and I
commented on all of this I just said
open AI will go broke with that attitude
for anyone the know what I mean by that
is
go work go broke is the common saying
that is appearing now so you have places
like Disney who inserts woke ideology
certain post-modern ideas about gender
or whatever else it happens to be the
particular denials of reality that are
fashionable at the time it keeps
inserting these ideas not merely in
their Star Wars Universe which the Star
Wars fans don't particularly appreciate
but also into certain shows for children
which the parents don't tend to like and
so people are switching off they're
switching off for a number of reasons of
Disney but those are two of them and so
the you know this is just one example of
where go work go broke lose customers if
you go work you at least lose you know
something like 50 of people who disagree
with that particular worldview and in
fact the I noticed the CEO of Disney
came out recently and said they were
wrong to have done this there wrong to
have taken this this weird woke turn and
they're going to turn back I saw an
interview with um with words of that
effect anyway you know whatever your
political leanings even as a company you
can you're free to do whatever you want
but if part of the reason for doing what
you do especially if you're a publicly
traded company at least part of the
reason is to make money for your
shareholders make good products yes
deliver a good service yes absolutely
they're your your primary reason for
existing making the good product
secondary related to that if you do make
a good product is to make a profit make
a return or your owner for your
shareholders that is completely
undermined if you take political stances
on the right or the left on the right or
the left unless of course you are
deliberately only going for one part of
the market one can imagine American gun
manufacturers you know narrowly focused
on trying to sell to conservatives and
there might be a Market opening there
for trying to sell to people who
otherwise would never buy guns but you
know you can see there I understand
there are certain reasons for gearing
your product towards a specific Market
but if you're a huge corporation like
Disney where where you know in in theory
you want to sell to everyone you want to
you want to maximize your reach taking a
political stance on anything bad idea
lose a large portion of your customers
you know don't express an opinion on
what Joe Biden is doing don't express an
opinion on what Donald Trump is doing if
you're a business person if you want to
make money for your shareholders don't
do this kind of thing don't engage in
the fashionable ideologies of the day
don't have an opinion on climate change
I mean you can of course you can I'm not
saying that this is something that
should be prohibited no I'm saying that
if you want to maximize profits it's
just a rational thing to do if I had a
business I wouldn't be coming out
strongly against joining a religion
joint joining a mainstream religion even
though I think people shouldn't I don't
think people necessarily should go out
actively seeking to join mainstream
religious but I'm not going to say that
because obviously that's a very minority
opinion I wouldn't want my my business
to be expressing religious views it's
going to turn people off and for the
same reason expressing political views I
wouldn't want that it's not part of what
a business is about it's about creating
good products that everyone wants no
matter who they are people are going to
be turned off by you expressing an
opinion okay next next was a
a tweet I constructed apropos of nothing
but it was just part of this you know
thing I was doing in in tweeting more
than normal and uh well I won't read
through the whole thing it was this um
Galaxy brain meme thing and you know I
was saying that the small brain takers
basically that the possibility of AI is
exciting because they make us better at
doing mundane jobs and then as people
become more educated I was implying with
my meme they they become they tend to
become more frightened about the
possibility of AI because they think
something like it's going to be better
than us at all tasks and so it's
eventually going to realize that we are
in inferior life form and they're going
to want to exterminate us the artificial
intelligence robots you know this is the
the Doom that appears in all those
science fiction movies that have ai
eventually the AI turns on us thinking
that that we human beings have some
deficiency that should be eradicated
from the earth okay so that's when
people learn a little bit of knowledge a
little bit of knowledge making them
dangerous so to speak but I think the
Galaxy brain takers is something like
well what I said was quote the
possibility of General AI is exciting
because whenever we use technology we
are them and we will become more moral
as we learn more by doing so
end quote so what I'm saying there is
that the artificial general intelligence
is us we're already using we're already
augmenting ourselves including our minds
with technology so in a sense we're
already artificial intelligence compared
to artificial general intelligence
compared to you know Neolithic man
Paleolithic man something like that even
Middle Ages man and we're not going to
become less moral and decide to turn on
each other so to speak and anyone who
isn't the artificial general
intelligence it's not like we're going
to turn around and want to start
Exterminating people so why should the
artificial general intelligence want to
exterminate us presumably they'll know
science as well as we do and understand
engineering as well as we do and all the
stuff that it'll know better presumably
we'll know morality better than us as
well and morality genuine morality is
the opposite to Let's exterminate other
people right so as we learn more we're
going to become more moral less likely
to want to exterminate people and I've
also tweeted uh and Akira the Don song
which features Naval Naval River Camp
which is kind of a cool thing you can
download this let me just play a little
bit at the risk of um well I guess I can
play 15 seconds or something at the risk
of violating copyright let me see
this idea that the future is going to be
these robots and they're going to be
doing everything and that may be true
but I would say the majority of the
robot Revolution is already happening
the robots were already here and there
are way more robots than humans it's
just that we pack them in data centers
for heat and efficiency reasons okay so
that's neval talking about how the robot
Revolution is already here quite right
you know like we we are surrounded by
robots most of the Marine software doing
the task of automating so much of our
thinking for us not the creative part of
our thinking but the the perspiration
phase of our of our work so you know me
making a podcast so much of it is the
robot takes care of you know putting
together the podcast to a large extent
making things easier for me so there's
that and there's also you know the the
robots that are on Twitter the the you
know the Bots the Tweet stuff that
elon's trying to get rid of all those
sorts of things that that is very much
here and as Davao kind of hints at in
the rest of the well the song there but
in the original podcast that he talks
about this is not a bad thing this is a
good thing we should be optimistic about
this now a lot of people have did
respond to my little tweet thing there
my little meme thing there about how
we're becoming the the AGI anyway the
general intelligence David Hearn always
has something interesting to say and he
has said it will be interesting to see
if AGI thinks it is superior given it's
a normal person and I just said in
response uh well it's not necessarily
going to think it's Superior any more
than a normal person a human being
would given it is a normal person if
it's a normal person it's not going to
think it's Superior
except at the same rate that any other
person thinks that they're Superior so
yeah next tweet Grant Lewis from the
University of Sydney has responded to
this idea that caused a lot of attention
people having visceral emotional
reactions to this this article and the
article was about how
some researchers claimed and and popular
science articles wrote that quantum
teleportation opens up a wormhole in
space-time
and some prominent physicists online
seem to be very upset about this okay
isn't it just funny like don't can't you
just laugh when science communicators
make an error or researchers make a
clanger like this it's clearly click
bait click bait's been going on online
for a long time yeah I think it's sad
it's unfortunate for science
communication I think it's a phase we're
going through by the way eventually
people will begin to realize when the
scientific content is Click bait and
when it's not but it happens in
astronomy far more often than not I I
don't like it myself you know every
second astronomy story is about you know
have aliens being found you know has
Kepler finally found the as you know the
the probes on Mars finally found
evidence of life and the answer is
always no they could just talk about the
science itself which is interesting
enough without invoking aliens every
time you can talk about experiments in
quantum theory that are interesting
without jumping to it's tell
teleportation and it's a wormhole okay
but but this is what happens now we have
to accept that this is the culture we're
swimming in when it comes to science
communication why certain physicists are
getting upset
having an emotional reaction I don't
know Grant Lewis has said quite soberly
quite right
quote did they really open up a wormhole
in space-time physics world did they
really okay so yeah he's just asking the
question is this really what's going on
gently chastising them for for hyperbole
we might say even for being misleading
even for lying okay without getting
angry about it and Luke Barnes has
responded and I thought this was
hilarious and I just responded to him I
just said brilliant he said when you
know in response to the claim that this
Wormhole had been opened in space-time
big deal a small invertebrate opens up a
wormhole in my garden every day
which is perfect that's perfect all
right now someone responded again to my
thread on artificial general
intelligence saying quotes you know this
fellow's name is Rob and Rob said
airplanes fly faster than Birds
submarines swim more efficiently than
fish and artificial intelligence will
reach a stage thereby comparing its
thinking to ours would be like comparing
a cheetah to a race car and I've said
quoting Einstein my pencil and I are
smarter than I am
and then I went on to say replace pencil
with literally any technology I can
multiply any two numbers together that
any computer can or win any chess game
against any Grand Master
just give me a computer that can do so
okay and quote so yeah my point there is
that again we're already the artificial
general intelligence we are using the
technology that technology is Dharma
doesn't make decisions for itself we
choose what to do with the artificial
intelligence that's already out there it
is not akin to an airplane flying faster
than a bird that is a comparison of the
physical against the physical what we're
talking about is an abstract quality of
creativity which is not a physical
phenomenon it's not made of atoms and at
the moment we outstrip any Airline
that's out there because the AI has
creativity possibilities of zero we have
a creative capacity that the AI lacks
the difference is it's a universe of
difference really but if thinking faster
is the factor well again pocket
calculator helps me to think faster into
compute numbers faster my laptop enables
me to think faster to do the tasks
faster it's not doing it I'm doing it by
virtue of using it it's like saying oh
the hammer is the thing that puts the
nails in not me you know when I'm
hammering something in no it's me
putting the nail into the wood if I'm
using a hammer the Hammer's just an
extension of my body effectively at that
point now in in my thread I made the
claim that we will become more moral
someone called snowshi has quoted me and
said this doesn't sit well with me so
what doesn't sit well with them my claim
that we will become more moral and I
sent quote morality like science is a
species of knowledge but ultimately
knowledge is a unified whole as there is
only one reality knowledge is a model of
that reality as we improve in science
and technology we necessarily improve
our moral knowledge so we become more
moral and I went on our knowledge of
history is a record not merely of
scientific progress it is also evidence
of moral progress
that is the best explanation of how he
escaped many tribal moral errors the
explanation of that history applies
equally to our present and future and
snow she has said thank you for
explaining I'll have to think about this
framing how do you determine what is a
moral error and I said as with anything
else by comparison to a better
explanation and they've said I still
don't understand how you know it's
better to which I haven't yet responded
maybe I can do that here it's it's in
the same way that we know anything else
is better when it comes to a good
explanation by surviving refutations by
surviving the critical process and when
we throw criticisms at something
like for example let's say communism we
say it's it's a it's a coercive system
that when it's actually attempted to
instantiate itself in the world it's
called the UN cause the the you know the
large number of deaths of people it's
just an ideology which has a which is
completely destitute when it comes to
helping people economically and creating
the conditions for people to flourish
okay there's a whole bunch of reasons
and and ways in which we can critique
something like communism we can say it's
a bad moral theory about economic theory
a bad way of organizing Society how do I
know
free Traders better than that well look
at the effects in the world but also
notice that there is a strict difference
between the presence of coercion and its
absence
and so when it comes to moral theories
that kind of thing is a good heuristic
you know does this thing require
coercion or not does this thing destroy
the means of error correction or not
okay these are heuristics we can use to
critique different moral theories and
that's how we know that's how we can
rank order our moral theories and come
up with a best current moral theory on
any particular topic sometimes it'll
just be for you sometimes it will be for
civilization and in science of course we
have the scientific experiment which can
decide between two good theories
sometimes we don't have that we don't
have that in in mathematics we have
proofs to decide between conjectures and
in the rest of our knowledge claims we
have argument and it's it's the argument
that wins the argument that is a
critical argument that that says of its
Rivals you know you're wrong for these
reasons and if there's no response to
that well then we know that we have the
the best explanation in in any given
field in fact that also works in science
by the way
you know the the best argument the best
explanation wins the day the
experimental test is just a part of that
next tweet I've responded to Arjun Arjun
kamani who is one of the The prominent
Rising content creators in this world of
ideas that we have online arjun's still
at school but trying to escape which is
good for him and he
uh has as I understand it
um beginning to achieve gainful
employment in areas that he's finding
fun so this is fantastic a great example
to to to any school student and he
interviewed a fellow called Michael
Strong on well coercion and then you
know the school and you know making
forcing people to do what they don't
want to do and I just responded to a
clip from his podcast that Arjun had
posted
I said as a school student myself about
age 14 I vividly remember the day I
thought to myself this is like a prison
only no one has committed any crime from
that moment onwards I was TCS without
having the vocabulary to describe it yet
and TCS just means taking children
seriously and someone has responded to
me Anna cat has responded to me he said
quote in my experience there was always
a subset of folks who really liked being
there characteristically these were the
ones who were really good at remembering
facts and were the ones always stood one
or two ranked in the class I wonder
where they are in life right now however
when I've responded to that strangely
perhaps that was me I love school much
of the time not all of the time but I
simultaneously hated the idea of it and
saw most people did not seem to benefit
in year 10 I remember honestly debating
my position against kids who hated
school but thought it necessary end
quote and in fact I can tell a story now
that the teacher actually set up a
debate one time it was in science class
of all of all places and we actually
debated the proposition that you know we
should be forced to go to school and I
took the side of the side that I
genuinely believed in I I think maybe
the topic came up because I'd this
science teacher was quite good it was
you know in terms of willing to listen
to people's opinions and I think I
expressed the opinion that we shouldn't
be forced to go to school and I think he
was surprised by this because I was the
you know ostensibly the nerd of the
class you know I'd always have something
to say and I was always studying hard in
science I loved science but but you know
so I took the position that we shouldn't
be forced to be there
and almost the entire rest of the class
was against me
I was the one who was doing best in the
class saying we shouldn't be there and
the others including some of whom were
really struggling and didn't like
science at all thought they should be
there the bizarre thing and so I've
known ever since then and even as a
teacher myself that some of the
strongest pushback you'll get to this
argument that schools shouldn't be
compulsory it's from school students
themselves at school it only gets worse
after that by the way of course there
are a lot of school students at school
who would love not to have to go to
school a lot of the a lot of the the
cleverest ones a lot of the ones that
are in the top classes yeah they're the
ones that that do tend to say oh we
should all be here because they they
like to win they like to be the top of
the class others don't want to be forced
together but there's a surprising number
that do that do think everyone should be
forced to go to school and of course
once everyone graduates then almost
everyone universally thinks that
everyone should go to school especially
their own children everyone looks back
on their time at school and how bad it
is was with rose-colored glasses this is
this is a an almost Universal phenomenon
I found I guess because Perhaps Perhaps
their life later on isn't very good you
know
um people say oh school days are some of
the best times of your life no they're
not no no things get better things
things do tend to get better
you're just remembering the fun you had
with your friends at school you're not
remembering all the tough times in the
classroom and and not having the freedom
to do what you wanted to do you're not
remembering that those weren't fun
recess and lunch time those few minutes
of the day where you had lots of fun
with all of your friends there that was
the exception to the rule but people
forget this they do forget this they
remember the weekends they remember the
sport I remember after school they don't
remember School very well next Annika
Harris Sam Harris's uh wife she followed
me she followed me on Twitter
and she tweeted quote science doesn't
Stamp Out mystery it leads to Greater
Mysteries to which someone has responded
surprised people still think Free Will
is a coherent concept after watching
this video and he has linked to Sam
Harris's Free Will lecture so somewhat a
little provocatively I have responded to
this fellow saying surprised people
still think it isn't namely a coherent
concept after watching this and a link
to my own YouTube
response to Sam Harris on this but again
another another Pleasant interaction
with people I'm not you know talking
about
having negative reactions on Twitter I'm
just not seeing it I'm not seeing it and
yeah sure my experience is not
generalizable that some people do have
negative experiences but what's my point
my point is that therefore Twitter
itself
is not at fault it's not like Twitter
itself is a cesspool as I often hear
sometimes I describe it in the same way
that Ricky Gervais has as a little bit
like the writing on the back of a toilet
wall but you know as much as there's
graffiti on the back of toilet walls
sometimes there's actually quite witty
remarks being made there as well I've
seen toilet walls that actually have
science equations written on them you
know this kind of thing happens so yeah
although the overwhelming majority of
tweets out there it might be almost
contentless or insulting or troll like
or the work of Bots okay it's not the
majority but even if it was well you can
find communities and ways of interacting
with people that can cause you to avoid
that experience the experience of the
so-called Cesspool the negative
experience that as prominent people say
they're having as a rule on Twitter okay
next
um uh someone by the name of Professor
quack
has responded to a tweet I'd made
earlier which is where in the tweet I
said that open AI Carl popper gets
everettian quantum theory and concedes
its testable
because I went to chat GPT I went to the
bot and I put in the prompt quote David
Deutsch invents a time machine and goes
back in time to speak to Karl Popper
again about the many worlds
interpretation of quantum mechanics Carl
poppers finally persuaded David is
correct and Promises to include this
fact and the reasons why in his
autobiography this is a transcript of
their conversation
and you know giving that instruction to
the program it produces a transcript of
that conversation and it's funny and you
can go to Twitter and have a read of
that if you like now the reason I chose
that is because David Deutsch said you
know he's recounted a couple of times
the meeting he actually had with Karl
Popper himself and during that meeting
with his supervisor they tried to
persuade Carl Poppa that he was wrong he
Kyle Papa was wrong about his
understanding of quantum mechanics and
they tried to persuade him of the
everettian interpretation of the
Multiverse and apparently he was
persuaded and said that he would include
something in his upcoming book that
touched on this but he never did
um for reasons that David doesn't know
but anyway this interaction really did
happen in the past and so I'm just
imagining I wonder what it would be like
if it actually could happen again at
some point in the future in the future
past so to speak anyway Professor quack
said that in the interaction that Carl
Poppa was way too easily convinced he
didn't buy it he didn't buy what the
computer was saying in in the script but
I responded to Professor Quack and said
quote he'd already been convinced once
in actual history
so in this imaginary future history the
groundwork has already been done should
be rather easier and quote so yeah what
I'm saying there is that oh car Papa he
already had heard about never any
interpretation he was already persuaded
by it no doubt he simply forgot he had
this conversation with David Deutsch if
he was reminded subtly and if David had
the chance to ever speak to him again
maybe the reinforcement of the knowledge
would be enough for him to be truly
persuaded this time which is to say
understand and incorporate the ever
ending interpretation as part of his
background knowledge and then his
philosophy would be all the more richer
for it but that it isn't the world
hasn't lost too much because after all
David Deutsch has come along and tidied
up the mess so to speak
for what it is I wouldn't really say
mess but you know tidied up the Loose
Ends that Carl Poppa left behind in his
not understanding Everett and quantum
theory or just quantum theory full stop
next anniket has responded to me uh
about another previous tweet in fact
same tweet he he responded and said that
incidentally I wrote this prompt just
now which was write a dialogue between
Carl Poppa and David Deutsch that's what
aniket gave to chat GPT which is an
interesting conversation
and I responded with yet another
dialogue that I put in and the prompt I
used this time was David Deutsch
explains his concept of good
explanations as being hard to vary to
Karl Popper and I wanted to see what the
computer would say about that these are
kind of fun because it's like I don't
know you you you you feel like it's an
alternative history of course it's
completely fictional but you are
surprised to some extent to some extent
but that level of surprise you have
putting prompts in to chat GPT it has a
very short half-life because you don't
have to explore it for long along the
same lines and it begins to repeat
itself the apparent creativity is
revealed to be not genuine creativity
because it's not imagining anything new
it's just giving you the same thing over
and over again ask a person to invent a
fictional story and they can come up
with in theory infinite different
stories infinite different versions of
the same story but the chat GPT doesn't
quite do that it doesn't have the
capacity to do that it's drawing on
pre-existing information it's mashing
that pre-existing information together
and to give the appearance of creativity
appearance of creativity is not
creativity in the same way the
appearance of design is not design
rather like how you know evolution by
natural selection gives you the
appearance of there being a watchmaker
or a blind watchmaker but there is no
such watchmaker there is no intelligence
behind it all what's really going on is
random mutations and selection there's
no consciousness there there's no
designer there blind or otherwise there
is simply the outworkings of well
effectively the laws of physics the laws
of physics as they appear
to act upon Jane's pump DNA and in the
same way we've got this chat GPT thing
and even if I can't explain it at length
in detail precisely what it's doing step
by step because of course the algorithm
is going to be highly complex it's going
to be very smart programmers coders
doing this and perhaps even them you
know that this team of programs that
come together when they all do come
together and they they put their code
together and it it it's able to do this
thing even if they can't explain it that
does not mean that does not mean even if
no one can give a good account of How
It's achieving what it's achieving that
therefore it's being creative it simply
means we lack an explanation but we can
rule out certain things we can rule out
the fact that it is being genuinely
creative because it's not producing any
new knowledge it's mashing together
pre-existing knowledge perhaps in ways
that defy explanation for the moment not
defy explanation in principle after all
problems are soluble but might defy us
able to explain why it's doing what
doing which I don't you know I don't
mind having that stance about things
that we invent ourselves we can invent
stuff and yet not know how it achieves
what it achieves anyone can have meant a
double pendulum for example you can
build a double pendulum but if you try
and describe the behavior of that double
pendulum good luck unless you have a
good understanding of you know second
order differential equations or
something like that
um you know the relevant physics the
complex behavior is produced by Pendulum
In fact even a simple pendulum if you
don't have understanding of simple
physics you can't explain why it does
what it does but you've built the thing
you might have built a pendulum but you
might not simultaneously be able to
explain how it does what it does
so too with chat GPT in neither case
just because you've built this thing and
you can't explain it do you leap to
therefore there's something truly
mysterious going on here there's
creativity there in the same way that
people have creativity no no that that
is the the wrong way to go
you might not be able to explain
something but also you can rule out
certain explanations as not being valid
and that's what I would say about chat
GPT even if people can't explain it even
if the programmers themselves can't
explain it I've made this point before
when it comes to alphago you know the
computers that that Win It Go or win at
chess and the programmers say themselves
we don't know how it's doing what it's
doing we don't know how it came up with
that move we can't explain it well okay
some people want to LEAP to well
therefore there's an intelligence there
therefore there's Consciousness there
because you know the programmers
themselves don't know how it's doing
what it's doing well okay if you don't
know how it's doing what it's doing
that's where your conversation should
stop with respect to that you just say
you don't know you don't leap to
therefore it's intelligent wrong the
Neil deGrasse Tyson says precisely the
same thing you see a photograph of
something you don't know what it is from
the sky you go a UFO you don't leap from
oh it's unidentified I don't know what
it is two therefore it's aliens visiting
from the other side of the Galaxy that
is an invalid move exactly the same is
true here of chat GPT or whatever else
just because the majority of people
can't explain what it's doing doesn't
mean that it's got intelligence
Consciousness lurking there in the
background that is the best explanation
of what's going on that's the worst
explanation of what's going on well not
the worst but it is a bad explanation of
what's going on because I would say it's
refuted ruled out by what we know about
actual intelligence and actual
creativity and actual Consciousness and
the ability to generate explanation
which is what we have we don't know
everything about it we can't program it
ourselves
but we know what kind of features it has
it can construct new knowledge which is
not what's going on with chat GPT okay
I've made enough of a point on that what
I also said in response to aniket was
with respect to chat GPT I said on
Twitter quote it's become a little bit
of a fast talker glossing over key
points getting some keywords in there
but never really explaining what cries
out for explanation end quote so yeah
when I've asked chat GPT to construct a
dialogue between David Deutsch and Carl
Poppa where David
explains what good explanations are to
Carl Poppa you read through the dialogue
and it's just throwing words together
you can see there's no depth there like
it begins strong it it attributes to
David the following it says quote well a
good explanation is one that is hard to
vary without losing its explanatory
power in other words it's an explanation
that can't be easily changed or altered
without losing its ability to explain
the phenomenon in question end quite
okay that's good that's good but I would
want to know and any reasonable person
would say okay what do you mean easily
change the altered okay that's hard to
vary good without losing its ability to
explain a phenomenon in question okay
good but it never really gets to the
heart of things it goes on Carl Poppa
you know the character Carl popular in
this dialogue asks a question and David
says quote the character David says
quote
in quantum mechanics the many world's
interpretation provides a good
explanation for the strange behavior of
subatomic particles it's hard to vary
explanation because it makes specific
predictions about the behavior of
quantum systems that are difficult to
change without losing their explanatory
power so end quite so it's repeated
itself there okay what about it is hard
to what makes an exploration hard to
Ferry well it's difficult to change
without losing explanatory power that's
circular that's not really telling you
what hard to vary means
so it's getting into a circular bit of
reasoning it's not representing David
Deutsch at all well it's not
representing a creative understanding of
this stuff at all well it's coming up
with a synonym for hard to vary and it's
saying well here's my explanation of
hard to very hard to vary means
difficult to change
difficult to change when it comes to
explanations without losing its
explanatory power that's just another
way of saying what a hard to very
explanation is
difficult to change without losing
exclamatory power it's not telling you
it's not explaining one in terms of the
other
it's just giving you two synonymous ways
of stating exactly the same concept
that's not a deeper explanation of
explanations at all okay let's not let's
not linger on that any further moving on
I tweeted about the Jocko podcast the
Jocko podcast uh one of my favorite
podcasts and he interviewed Tulsi
gabbard the Democrat presidential
candidate from a few years ago who quit
the Democrat Party ah she had
disagreements with it and I said about
this I just tweeted out I said great
episode quibble with Jocko willink at
the 19 minute mark because not all
learning is like brainwashing broadly
the former learning requires a human to
deploy their critical faculties to
construct knowledge the latter
brainwashing requires those same
faculties to be disabled end quote so
Jocko in that interview it's wonderful
Joko sometimes gets onto epistemology
interestingly enough and broadly
speaking he has the common sense and
correct view about epistemology but in
this particular case he he went off the
rails a little bit he was talking about
how people are brainwashed for example
in the military and I think it's quite
right to say that military
indoctrination is a form of brainwashing
quite right okay stop thinking
critically about this thing just do it
if you're ordered to do something just
do it in other moods of course Jocko
says good military leaders and indeed
good soldiers don't just do what they're
commanded or ordered to do they should
be thinking about what they're doing now
that's what a good soldier should be or
what a good military leader should be
but of course the entire impetus of
military training to a large extent is
to indoctrinate out of you
the concept that you should think for
yourself you are supposed to do
precisely what the the whole concept of
an order is you you don't think about it
you follow the order and you do what
you're told to do now is this ideal of
course it's not of course it's not but
when it comes to having people give up
their lives for something you know fight
to the death over something the best way
that we know presently about how to get
young people to do this kind of thing is
to indoctrinate them is to brainwash
them that's just a fact of the matter
World War one when you had people in
trenches needing to quote go over the
top in trench warfare especially in
places where you know for example the
the Allies were fighting against the
Turks let's say the Turks and the
Germans then in trench warfare the you
know the the British commanders would
would blow the whistle and then the
soldiers would leap up out of the
trenches and go running towards the
enemy who are also entrenches and who
would mow them down either with rifle or
even machine guns now how do you get
people to do this to to LEAP out of the
trench knowing full well there's every
chance they're going to be killed well
they have to be brainwashed to some
extent the military training has to be
very for one of another word good you
have to be you have to be trained out of
your desire to survive it's got to be
hard to do that's going to be very hard
to do without brainwashing without
switching off a person's critical
faculties without indoctrinating them
with a certain kind of anti-rational
meme so anyway I think Jocko knows all
this but just to say that he was
speaking a little bit Loosely there in
this particular interview where he was
talking with Tulsi gabbard about the
experience of being in the military and
learning stuff in the military and sort
of saying well he was basically saying
whenever you're learning it's a form of
brainwashing and I disagree with that I
think these are two different things I
think that learning is a broader
category of stuff and brainwashing is a
particular kind of learning a particular
kind of learning which causes one to
take on anti-rational names causes one
to not use their reason to disable those
critical faculties but nonetheless to be
compelled to engage in particular
behaviors because they've learned how to
do these particular behaviors in an
unthinking kind of a way which is what
you know military leaders want of
especially their soldiers they want them
to just follow orders without thinking
about it that's not ideal it would be
far better if a military would consisted
entirely of thinking people who simply
agreed with the instructions they were
given and I think more and more that's
becoming the norm certainly in the west
because the soldier will believe in the
cause and come to a critical
understanding of why they're doing what
they're doing for reasons of service and
so on rather than simply I better obey
the orders or if you listen to Jocko for
long enough or anyone who's in the
military today they will say the reason
why they're fighting is for the people
alongside of them they're they're
actually doing this for their friends
their brothers that are engaged in the
war engaged in the battle that that's
why they're doing what they're doing
they're fighting so that the people
beside them will survive and the best
plan is to fight as hard as possible
defeat the enemy so in that way everyone
comes home you know they've saved their
friends okay so in response to that
tweet a fellow named glimpse
has said Jocko podcast is awesome what
are your favorite podcasts Brett
and I've said quote in order of most
played recently not preference which are
not one-off listens and then I've given
my list so I listen to a lot of podcasts
I take a lot of walks whenever I'm
traveling I will be listening to
podcasts or listening to audio sometimes
audio books but increasingly podcasts
and sometimes I'll listen to Just A
one-off episode so someone I'll learn
about a particular podcast the existence
of a particular podcast and I think I'll
just give that a go I'll listen to one
episode or a particular person appears
on a particular podcast that I otherwise
wouldn't listen to but I'll just tune in
for that one episode where that one
guest appears in that particular podcast
you know David deutschkers and appears
on someone's podcast of course I'll
listen to it but I might never listen to
any of their other episodes so my
favorite in scare quotes podcasts by
which I really mean ones I've listened
to most recently the ones that I've that
keyed on my Apple podcasts app that tell
me that these are the ones I've been
listening to recently they are
in no particular order uh Jocko's
podcast the mogcast this is with Jacob
Reese mogg who's a British politician
very eloquent well-spoken conservative
politician uh he's he's out of now the
British have this interesting system
where if you're not
if you're in the party that's in power
now at the moment of course in in
British Politics the conservatives are
in power
so Jacob Reese mogg is part of the
conservative party
but he also says he's not part of the
government if you're on the back bench
in British politics
then even if you're a member of the
party that's in power you don't regard
yourself as being in government it's a
curious thing so this is subtly
different too the way it works in
Australia so Jacob Reed smog when he
appeared on his own podcasts with the
interviewer when he was actually in
government as leader of the house so he
was a government minister
he was reticent to really speak freely
on his own podcast but now that he's a
backbencher even though his party is
still in power he speaks much more
freely it's a more interesting podcast
because he says what he really thinks
whereas
um he says that when he's actually in
the government he's Bound by Collective
responsibility so whatever the you know
the cabinet
The View happens to be the government's
view happens to be he would not be able
to give his own view this is unlike in
Australia in Australia the back benches
are a part of the government as far as
I'm aware I've never heard of anyone on
the back bench
Who's Who belongs to the party in power
saying they're not in government no they
say they're in government the entire
side of politics at the moment the labor
party is
in government in power and it doesn't
matter whether you're the prime minister
or a minister or an assistant minister
or you know anyone on that side of
politics you're part of the government
they're all part of the government
backbenches or not okay so anyway off
topic side issue the mogcast is
something that I listen to I just like
listening to to him it gives me a good
sense of where British politics is at
any given time
after that the making sense podcast of
course with Sam Harris the Brendan
O'Neill show Brendan O'Neill if you
don't know him he's not on Twitter
he's an interesting fellow he's on every
other social media though and he's quiet
it's different you've got any
interesting curious fellows that
you know he he he's all over social
media except Twitter which he says he
doesn't like but I don't see how being
on Instagram which he is is much
different to being on Twitter you know
the the comments still comes through
thick and fast if you can ignore the
comments on Instagram and Facebook why
can't you ignore the replies on Twitter
I don't know maybe the little bell icon
has a psychological effect on people so
anyway the Branded Neil show is very
good Brendan O'Neill is the editor of
spiked magazine which also has a
separate podcast altogether I I tend not
to listen to that one as often but I
listen to Brendan O'Neill's show uh
almost every episode he has interesting
guests and again he's one of these
well-spoken fellows who says interesting
things like he's a Marxist
but but these days you know you listen
to him and he's got all he's got all
free market values and very much values
of Liberty which stands that contrast to
Marx but he he of course famously says
he likes Marx in the same way that
people talk about you know the Rolling
Stones
he likes their earlier stuff he likes
Marx's early stuff rather than the late
stuff okay so that's Brendan O'Neill
the Tim Ferriss show this is one of
Naval ravacant's recommendations uh
and Tim Ferriss has had many interesting
guests over time Nevada can of course is
one uh Jocko I think his first
appearance was actually on the Tim
Ferriss show
I think Tim Ferriss is a good friend of
Joe Rogan now I haven't included Joe
Rogan there in amongst my list here now
that I read through it again and that's
because Joe Rogan is on Spotify so
because he's on Spotify he's not
appearing in my Apple podcast list
so next apart from Tim Ferriss is
spectator out loud they have a podcast
this is a British version of The
Spectator again a good Roundup of not
merely British politics but global
politics smartless smartless is a comedy
podcast
where the three interviewers were
celebrities American celebrities uh
interview other celebrities okay so this
is a lighthearted kind of a thing not my
favorite comedy podcast there are two
that are that I would hold out equally
in terms of my favorite comedy podcast
the first one is Conan O'Brien needs a
friend and that's kind of Brian's
podcast I like Conan O'Brien in terms of
all the late night hosts I think Conan
O'Brien is just head and shoulders above
the other guys now of course his his
show has long since finished now
he doesn't do it anymore but he does a
podcast and I just find it hilarious in
places he has interesting guests and he
also does this thing Conan O'Brien needs
a fan which is like a supplementary
every every couple of episodes It's
Conan O'Brien and needs a fan is
literally that they will call up one of
their fans who no doubt is written in uh
from around the world and he has a you
know usually quite funny conversation
with them the rest of the episodes are
typically speaking other comedians cones
friends or guests that he's had on his
show yes it's celebrity talk it's
superficial type stuff but uh funny yeah
I think Conan O'Brien is a like I say
Head and Shoulders above a lot of those
other comedians that tend to have shows
and podcasts
for one thing he leaves the politics out
of it you can tell okay I know Brian
comes from a particular side of politics
um but it doesn't infect the show it
doesn't undermine how funny the show is
you can you can ignore his politics very
easily next is a highly political
comedian and that is the Tim Dillon show
Tim Dylan has the biggest podcast on
patreon a huge number of followers
um
a very funny guy
um he's at his best when he doesn't do
interviews when he does interviews I
don't find him all that interesting
when it's just him ranting at the camera
hilarious some episodes are better than
others I do tend to listen to him
religiously his show comes out well in
Australia it comes out on the Sunday
every Sunday I guess in America that
would be the Saturday but Tim Dillon is
just an unusual
fella I suppose it's an acquired sense
of humor Jim Dillon
uh but he's one of Joe Rogan's favorite
comedians as well and of course I I
disagree vehemently with a lot of what
Tim Dylan has to say politically but
he just has a a wonderful way of taking
things so the absolute extreme and so it
becomes absurdist and I quite like that
Ben Shapiro is in my list there the Iran
Brook show is in my list and lastly an
Australian comedy
show called Sizzle town and Sizzle town
is well it's hard to explain it's by an
Australian comedian Australian New
Zealand comedian very famous in
Australia's name is Tony Martin
one of our greatest comedians but again
uh difficult to recommend to people from
overseas but it's Tony Martin the
premise is unusually for a podcast Tony
Martin pretending to do TalkBack radio
in fact pretending to do talk back
podcasting where he is all the guests
that ring in to himself he plays he does
character voices so it's very funny if
you you if you know Australian humor and
it's the hard part for recommending it
to anyone
because so much of it rests on
understanding Australian culture
yes but uh but I quite like that one and
of course honorable mention the only
reason it doesn't appear in my original
list
is because I hadn't caught up with the
latest episode and that is the Arjun
khamani podcast so I didn't include him
and he deserves very much to be there
Arjun kamani has some wonderful guests
but I tend to listen primarily for Arjun
who has interesting takes on the stuff I
generally talk about but he comes from a
well he's a he's a much younger person
who who has his unique own insights on
these things and he's coming with a
fresh mind often to the stuff that I
talk about so I I quite appreciate that
next tweet so moving on from my favorite
podcasts someone responds
to one of my other tweets with their own
chat GPT uh dialogue where they've
they've uh the The Prompt they've put in
is to do with me Brett Hall
arguing about the validity of Bayesian
reasoning and in the dialogue I come off
as rather dogmatic
and unwilling to say anything positive
about so-called Bayesian reasoning I
won't read through the dialogue but
instead my response to the dialogue on
Twitter was to say quote I think I'm
more on the side of the other person
than Brett in that exchange so I
actually didn't agree with the way I was
being represented and in fact I would
have taken the other side of the
argument for a lot of this my next tweet
was me retweeting David Deutsch who
would engage with chat GPT on uh he and
he he gave it some prompts about writing
a poem about electrons so have a look at
David's Twitter feed for that I then
retweeted Elon Musk Elon Musk said quote
Twitter acting by itself to suppress
free speech is not a First Amendment
violation but acting under orders from
the government to suppress free speech
with no judicial review is end quote and
quite right a lot of us have been
talking about this that you know
companies are free to say what they like
people are free to say what they like
but in America the First Amendment to
the Constitution about government not
passing laws about speech well that
includes politicians
threatening or being perceived to
threaten private individuals and
companies about what they can say for
fear especially when it comes to
companies that if the company doesn't
follow the edicts or the strong
insinuations let's say of what the
politician is implying that perhaps
legislation will be passed perhaps a
regulation will be generated that might
not be let's say all that beneficial
should have come to pass for that
particular company so although
the politician and the government might
not be passing laws nonetheless on
behalf of the government or the
politicians in the government companies
end up regulating speech let's say
Twitter ends up regulating speech
censoring people
for fear the politicians might regulate
the company in some way without ever
specifying what the speech is without
ever saying you know we don't want this
particular speech on your platform but
we do want this particular special
platform we want you to suppress the
hunter Biden laptop story we don't want
you to suppress the the negative stories
about Trump that kind of thing they
don't have to say that explicitly they
can kind of have emails exchanged with
Executives and workers at Twitter and
the executives and workers of twitters
can know that if they don't do what
they're told then perhaps there might be
some regulation made about something to
do with Twitter's business so although
the government's not specifically making
a regulation about speech that's a
violation of the First Amendment it's at
least a violation of the spirit of the
Constitution moving on and I'm just
going to skip past a couple here because
uh I don't want to repeat myself but one
thing is uh tweeted about
Jordan Peterson in conversation with
Matt Ridley who's a a British
intellectual British intellectual
maybe able to hear some Thunder from
outside my house and I said of this
conversation they had this is
uh Jordan Peterson's podcast number 310
episode 310 I set off it sober and very
detailed scientific and political
analysis on what was and now is known
and Unknown by Matt Ridley and
conversation with Jordan Peterson about
covert 19. and so that I found that very
Illuminating I know we're all got covert
weariness to some extent now but in this
particular case I found it still
informative there were the parts of this
story I didn't know about people saying
that it couldn't possibly have come from
a lab and there was definitely some sort
of coordinated attempt by the media and
certain experts to suppress that theory
why well yeah watch the episode to find
out more it doesn't need to be a big
Grand conspiracy it can it can just be
people acting on the side of their
particular side of politics everyone
knows without saying anything without
getting together in a in a cigar
smoke-filled room what needs to be done
okay they don't have to be given orders
as such there's a particular ideology
that compels them to behave in a certain
way that might not be conspiratorial
that can just be everyone agrees again
anti-rational memes by coming to this
next tweet and I guess one of the
reasons I'm doing this right now is is
to illustrate why I have the pattern of
tweeting that I sometimes do because
amidst all those other tweets I threw in
uh my latest episode of topcast the
latest episode of topcast is knowledge
and ignorance which is more commentary
on Pieces by popper in particular on the
sources of knowledge and of ignorance
that lecture that I'm going through I'm
up to part five now so this is really
you know central part of my work so to
speak this is the thing I've put most
effort into and whereas the odd tweet of
mine might get you know 15 likes and you
know five or six retweets or in some
cases hundreds of likes and lots of
retweets if if someone prominence
retweets a thing this one which I kind
of hoped would get a bit more love
uh you know it gets nine likes and one
retweet so
that's unfortunate
a tough order because you know this is
the thing that I've spent most of my
time doing is
carefully reading through Papa's lecture
analyzing it going to some sources that
Poppy himself talked about uh reading
through those analyzing those
but I don't think many people saw this
tweet and the reason not many people saw
this tweet is because it was sandwiched
between a whole bunch of other tweets so
this is why I shouldn't
tweet this frequently there's a reason
for the pattern that I have on Twitter
to leave to leave some space either side
of the important stuff the important
stuff is letting people know that I've
got another podcast out I want people to
be able to hear Papa hear me reading
through Papa
anyway in part of this particular thing
part of this particular episode
I talk about how Carl Poppa and the art
historian Austrian art historian is
named gombridge now gone Bridge wrote
about John Constable who's a British
Artist and Constable would say that his
painting is kind of like doing
scientific experiments and anyway I I
didn't go into but but it seemed like it
seemed to me as if gombridge and papa
must have been friends just without
doing any research because of the way
Papa was writing about gombridge and you
go to gomrich's book the popper quoted
and there's quotes by Papa so they're
quoting each other they're referring to
each other this is interesting they're
contemporaries of each other so
interesting that you know they're
referring to each other did they know
each other well
um a follower of mine Ernst who's a
who's a musician in Sweden ernsta Lanson
and he said in response to my podcast he
listened to the whole thing thank you
Ernst he said quote gon bridge and papa
were friends I think Papa writes about
him helping proper with publishing open
society and its enemies in a preface of
some addition
as for preparing art critics
Dorian K Brandy is great he's on Twitter
Bandy is great we'll soon have his book
on Mozart out I think so Dorian at
Dorian K Bandy guess who I uh no via
Twitter so he's bringing out a book on
Mozart who's and he's going to be
talking about propriena Pittsburgh and
that so that's exciting and I said in
response to Ernst uh thanks for that
Ernst I realized I'm recording that
section I'm being lazy and not looking
this up right now but I've gone to the
trouble of looking up his book and
reading sections from it so I felt that
was enough in other words what I'm
saying there is in that tweet I I got
the sense that popper and gomrich were
friends I should have gone and
researched it but I was just too lazy
that's good that Ernst picked me up on
that um I then also tweeted to Jordan
Peterson uh because I I tweeted about
his interview with Matt Ridley at some
point during that conversation with Matt
Ridley he was talking about science and
how science arises in societies and what
the preconditions are and he was getting
himself confused he was trying to think
it through from first principles I think
he got off track I don't think he quite
got it right and I tweeted to Jordan
Peterson I said to him quote the
precondition by the way for science at
least open-ended science is a tradition
of criticism
C the beginning of infinity by David
Deutsch which takes us to something like
an epistemological explanation for the
enlightenment by which I mean our
Enlightenment so yes Jordan Peterson he
clearly has a good understanding I would
say of the Enlightenment but I don't
think he's read David Deutsch and he
probably should to have a better
understanding of epistemology and the
epistemological
antecedents of the Enlightenment namely
having the capacity to criticize and
then that becoming a tradition of
criticism I said a few more things about
that interview with Jordan Peterson and
Matt Ridley which I won't go through now
seems to me like this newsletter is
going on far longer than I thought so
I'm not going to get through all of my
tweets in the way that I hoped right now
so maybe I'll just pick a few others one
is from uh DG and d DJ DG a few people
have tweeted to me that I think I think
it must be Spotify Spotify is is telling
people what their most listened to
podcast is anyway DG among others said
well DJ in particular said thanks Brett
for the insight and companionship while
reading the beginning of infinity by
David Deutsch and thanks Naval for
mentioning this gem so so he's listed
all of his um favorite podcasts he's
most listened to podcasts and topcasts
came out number one he wasn't the only
one to tweeted at me about that which
was nice a number of news places
reported that the director the Avatar
director the Terminator director the the
the Titanic movie director James Cameron
he said in an interview that
testosterone is a toxin men must
terminate from their system in response
to one of these articles I just said
quote just a toxin in men is the natural
testosterone women have not a toxin then
end quote so you know ridiculous claims
is more woke nonsense this attack on man
or masculinity announced because you
know literally testosterone is a toxin
this is bizarre this is a bizarre claim
but at least it gets to the heart of the
matter I mean you're really focusing in
supposedly on masculinity there in
theory this is a thing that makes you
know one of the things that defines
masculinity you know the the presence of
testosterone but of course it's also in
women you know if it's taken seriously
taken literally if it really is a toxin
it's a ridiculous claim is it also toxic
in women or is it only toxic in men why
is it toxic What specifically because it
causes bigger muscles wider all those
narrow hips what what
the aggression perhaps but there's the
aggression of toxin during you know a
defensive War you know the testosterone
that was required by soldiers fighting
for the Allies against Hitler was that
was that toxic
asking silly questions I suppose now
someone tweeted about a news story from
Australia and this person's not from
Australia David Burge who tweeted about
a story that appeared on December 2nd
which is where a woman a climate
activist a violet Coco was given a
15-month sentence eight months no parole
after she blocked one lane of the Harbor
Bridge for 25 minutes in April and the
original quote said that it was an
outrageous decision that was made in a
Sydney Court in this David Burge fellow
who's got hundreds of thousands of
followers he said
outrageous that's 15 months of a young
woman's life she could have spent
blocking more bridges
so he's he's taking a shot at the person
who said that it was outrageous that
this woman should have been given a
15-month sentence and someone someone
has tweeted back to this David Burge
fellow saying you know Fair comment but
eight months is a pretty significant
sentence for a nuisance crime and so
anyway I've responded just with a single
word saying nuisance question mark and
the reason I have is because I've quoted
a news article which said quote to go
into more detail about this this person
that blocked the Harbor Bridge this news
story said court documents stated that a
New South Wales ambulance which had
activated its red and blue lights was
forced to stop on the Harbor Bridge on
the way to an emergency this imposition
to a critical emergency service has the
potential to result in a fatality
document seen by the news source said
quite right all right if you're going to
start blocking highways and just case a
bridge which is also a highway part of a
highway and you're going to continue to
block it even when an ambulance with its
sirens on possibly transporting someone
to hospital to get life-saving care
you're you're slowing that process down
you're perhaps stopping that process
you're perhaps if you're going to cause
the death of someone because of your
actions in protesting well then yeah we
need to tell you know give a bit of a
message the rest of the community that
this is not okay blocking highways for
this reason is not okay
you want to have a protest that's fine
put a banner up you go on the side of
the road don't block the road you could
kill someone it's not merely a nuisance
keep on going I might just um pause over
the fact that I retweeted David Deutsch
one of his old tweets where he said
quote post-modernism and woke are not
reversions to the pre-modern they are
the latest perversion of and Rebellion
against the enlightenment end quote
quite right so you know there's this I I
have argued that woke is a particular
version of postmodernism itself coming
from Continental European philosophy
that's where it originated but it has
its precursors are there but in neither
case in none of these cases is it a
reversion to the pre-modern it's not
like it's you know that this kind of
thing existed back in the classic era
not quite the little and the ancient
hero no people were striving to
understand stuff back then this is a
rejection of attempting to understand
stuff in many cases saying well truth is
not knowable that sort of thing truth is
not knowable you can't search for it it
doesn't exist that's a rebellion against
the enlightenment as David says there
and then I've responded to Michael
Nielsen uh the the the quantum physicist
wrote a fantastic book on Quantum
computation and he tweeted he's writing
a book now on
uh seemingly philosophy of science but
he's calling it meta science or
something
anyway uh I get the impression just from
reading some of his stuff interesting
enough but he's not
it it's always I find it useful to build
on what other people have done or to
take seriously at least you know what
what other people are sensibly said on
this topic about philosophy of science
you know where I'm coming from with this
but Michael Nielsen doesn't seem to be
doing this he's trying to start from the
ground up okay fair play you know to try
and be interesting and you know don't
don't pollute your mind with the ideas
of others maybe you're coming with
something original but I think it's well
let's just see what he tweeted and I'll
I'll tell you what I think about this he
tweeted and he's he's he's provided the
text from I think his own writing and he
says quote something which puzzles me
about the structure of knowledge why
some statements are so enormously more
important than others of comparable
length I have a lot of trouble
articulating this and maybe it's not a
real problem but I suspect it is end
quote and then he goes on to quote his
own lengthy text and his problem he
seems to be focused on is why is it that
you know you have people publishing
stuff inside
journals and you know the Articles can
be the same length but some of them end
up getting cited a lot and having huge
impact and others don't and he's saying
that's a mystery to him it puzzles him
about the structure of knowledge why
some statements so enormously more
important important than others of
comparable length I I don't see that
this is a problem so you've got two
statements of comparable length
two scientific papers of equal length
one gets a lot of attention is important
and one doesn't how is that a mystery
but what I said is quote some papers
contain more errors or misconceptions
than others I actually put a question
mark at the end of that so some papers
contain more errors and misconception
than others I've gone on knowledge is
information that solves a problem and
because it does it counts as useful so
it gets copied which makes it important
mere information that does not count as
knowledge doesn't
so tends to be less resilient end quote
so yeah I I just think that well you
have two claims to knowledge
two statements of comparable length
one's going to be more important than
other than the other even so far as one
of them is a real knowledge claim
contains less error less misconception
the other could be a complete not a
falsehood completely false in all
respects it contains no useful
information it's not knowledge so it's
not going to get copied this makes all
the difference I don't see that you know
you could ask what it is about the thing
that gets copied that makes it knowledge
and then I would say you know perhaps in
a circular way or one of them is more
useful one of them solves a problem one
of them can actually go on to lead to
more discoveries
perhaps lead to technology lead to cures
lead to an explanation an account of
what's really out there in the world all
of this kind of stuff but just because
two statements have the same length
doesn't mean they both have the same
information content much less knowledge
content okay so I don't see a great
mystery there but you know Michael's
doing his own thing when it comes to
epistemology it seems but I I think he
would be enormously helped by reading
popular but people just don't read
proper there's a lot of people who just
have very little respect for philosophy
in general they lump pop her in with
everything else they think well they can
do it because especially if they're
they're coming from a scientific
background they think I'm a scientist
I'm a physicist I I know more than these
philosophers and they're probably quite
right you know when it comes to
their academic colleagues at the
University that they've encountered
you know they've had they've had coffee
with some of these philosophers and
they're unimpressed okay fair enough but
that doesn't mean that you know Carl
popper is in that same category you can
learn something from cardboard but you
really can then apropos of nothing I've
tweeted quote in this episode of
predictions playing a part in generating
conditions which go on to disprove them
all the claims Twitter had a few days
left causing traffic to go up as record
numbers tuned in to watch among other
reasons and then I've gone on to say
these never were predictions but pure
prophecy okay so what I'm saying there
is there was a whole bunch of people a
couple weeks ago saying basically
Twitter's about to end Twitter's got a
few days left at most musk has taken
over people are fleeing from the
platform it's about to collapse all the
advertisers are leaving
it's it's a bankrupt platform uh there's
no hope you know a lot of people in fact
did leave or at least said they were
going to leave but they were making
these so-called predictions saying
Twitter didn't have long to go and they
all turned out to be false now one
reason they turned out to be false among
many it was just never true to begin
with but could be simply articulating
simply saying to the world Twitter
hasn't got long to left Twitter's about
to collapse means that people who don't
use Twitter that often are rushing to
Twitter to see the catastrophe unfold
and that actually goes some way to
preventing the tragedy from unfolding to
prevent the collapse because Twitter
survives you know lives or dies by the
number of users so you've encouraged
more users to come simply by saying the
places going to collapse on itself
people want to see that
so yeah it's it's a case of the
prediction generating conditions which
go on to disprove that very prediction
David Deutsch has made this point before
someone said in response this episode of
predictions was as good as Y2K but now I
I've disagreed with that I've said that
Y2K was a genuine prediction in terms of
counter factuals like
if we do not do X Y and Z then the bug
will cause computer crashes because of
some good explanation and so what
actually happened in Y2K is they they
did the X Y and Z that was necessary
which prevented you know the the crash
of all the computers but there was a
good explanation of why the computers
would crash it genuinely was a good
explanation
but I've also said he on the other hand
the Twitter profits never had any such
good prediction now this tweet didn't
make it
into the last few days so something I
tweeted last week Naval retweeted it and
it was a thread on how we'll really find
alien life and what I said in this
thread was well the first tweet of the
thread I did say how we'll really find
alien life never mind grainy pictures of
flying sources or finding bacteria on
Mars the most promising way of detecting
life elsewhere will be seen in Spectra
of light from distant Stars passing
through the atmospheres of planets
orbiting them end quite then I've gone
on to describe the interesting science
that the James Webb Space Telescope is
doing in detecting the chemical
composition of the atmospheres of
distant planets exoplanets it's
fantastic stuff and I think what we hope
we hope that we're going to detect the
bio signature of Life out there
somewhere or other okay this is this is
good great science anyway someone
someone has asked an interesting
question about this in the last day or
so they said to me tweeted at me quite
out of curiosity do we also look for
life forms that would rely on different
biochemistry I suppose the process would
be similar but what would we be looking
for
and I've responded not for lack of
trying first we need an explanation of
what is viable perhaps silicon instead
of carbon but the molecules that
complexity or ammonia instead of water
is a solvent the reaction rate is too
slow maybe protons nuclei can do
something strange on the surface of
neutron stars okay end quote so people
often ask this you know people who
especially people who aren't familiar
with the field of astrobiology
astrobiology is a field it's it's about
what could life elsewhere in the
universe consist of and it's a word
people say well you know how can you how
can you possibly study something for
which there's no subject matter you know
we don't have any astrobiology to study
that's true but you can also constrain
what it's possible to make life out of
now it's no point postulating and an
alien life form that is made of nothing
but hydrogen hydrogen can only form bond
with itself once to form H2 molecules it
doesn't form H3 it can't form long
chains so there's good chemical and
physical reasons why this is the case
and so but people do say you know things
like oh you know the scientists they
don't have enough imagination we could
have life made out of this that or the
other end Life as we can't conceive it
kind of I mean that the scientists do
have good imaginations and they try and
imagine strange chemistries
strange ways in which bonding could
happen but if you want genetic
information to be passed on if you want
to have Generations which means you want
Evolution you want life that's what life
would be you have these this kind of
feature of being able to be copied uh
complexity being copied then you need
something that can store the information
and so we know that DNA exists that's
this is carbon-based life well why is
carbon so useful because it's got a
valency of four it's got four electrons
in the outermost shell this enables it
to make long chains and rings and
there's all sorts of really interesting
molecules Carbon on its own can bond
with more things make more a greater
variety of chemistry than all the other
the chemical elements combined can make
with each other okay carbon alone now
the the element that is most closely
resembling Carbon on the periodic table
is silicon so people try and imagine
silicon-based life form
and science fiction sort of writers like
this but when the chemists really get
involved and really try and look at okay
is this feasible just because silicon is
kind of like carbon in some ways it
doesn't work you can't get really long
chains of of silicon in the same way you
can with carbon you just can't make DNA
with silicon it's too brittle so that
doesn't work but you can't have complex
molecules so that doesn't work actually
and some people say well okay what about
if we had something other than water
instead of water-based life because all
you know every bit of life on Earth
contains water in some way well what
could you use instead of water you want
reactions to take place because we're
sort of chemical reactions happening in
this big bag of water we are the bag of
water we've got water floating around in
us the chemical reactions with carbon
chemicals and stuff what could we use
instead well you could try ammonium NH3
that's kind of like water but in fact it
doesn't work either why because it's
only a liquid you need a liquid of some
sort for the the things to dissolve and
the other chemicals are dissolving
but although ammonia has similar
properties to water it only has those
similar properties at a much lower
temperature and if you've got a lower
temperature the reaction rate is slower
so again ammonia doesn't work so anytime
you try and vary carbon-based life or
something else or water for something
else you run into problems and this is
why
not only do we go looking for Life as we
know it but we have good reasons to
suspect in any life out there it's kind
of similar to Life as we know it in that
regard that it's going to have DNA and
it's going to be kind of water-based as
well
my maybe it's something else but for now
let's just look for that
because every other kind of life we
imagine there's good criticisms against
it why waste time on things we think
we've refuted here on Earth already
let's go with the best explanation the
best conjecture perhaps okay I think
that's where I'll end the discussion of
tweets that I've been a part of I mean
the last 10 minutes or so I'll go to my
list of likes over the last weekend and
last few days and I won't go through all
my likes but uh just just some I liked a
tweet by David Deutsch who has quoted an
article
from the U.S Air Force which unveiled
today their B-21 radar bomber a stilt
bomber
and he said may it fulfill its purpose
by never needing to be used in Anger
which is nice you know the most of these
big military things are deterrents I
like to Robin Hansen tweet who said I
haven't seen it in my feed and is
responding to a New York Times article
which says which is titled hate speeches
rise on Twitter is unprecedented
researchers find but of course that is
by the New York Times and unfortunately
we now know that if you read something
from New York Times you have to question
it but if you're going to place bets
you'd probably bet on it being the
opposite the truth is actually the
opposite to whatever the New York Times
happens to say it's a sad State of
Affairs you know if if New York Times
says hate speech is going up you can
presume it's actually probably going
down and as Robin Hansen says there he
hasn't seen it in his feed possibly
because it's gone down I like to tweet
by someone who calls themselves the
red-headed libertarian who just said
based
and they've tweeted a video of Jordan
Peterson
now what did Jordan Peterson have to say
in this video it's only 22 seconds long
so let me play you the clip you know how
I stopped being faced by protests at
universities when I went to talk there I
hold my talks at eight o'clock in the
morning yeah and you know why that's
funny because none of the bloody
protesters will hold themselves out of
bed to come and agitate about their
magical super Nazi because it's eight in
the morning yeah so that's nice he's
just observing there that the kind of
people who protest him
are not the kind of people who get up
before nine o'clock in the morning
you know if you've got the energy to
devote to protesting Jordan Peterson I
would argue then you only have that
energy because you're a kind of lazy
person you haven't taken time to really
understand his ideas and compare them to
your existing worldview because if you
did you wouldn't be protesting him so
you're a lazy kind of a person so
therefore you're not the kind of person
who's willing to get up early in the
morning in order to defend your
cherished beliefs I don't think everyone
who gets up early in the morning is
necessarily not lazy or vice versa I'm
just saying that you're not going to do
the thing that is required you do to
have some sort of discipline if you're a
lazy person if you're a lazy person
you're just going to fall into your
regular patterns of behavior you know
fall back on that and lazy people also
don't like to critique themselves the
Venn diagram might be a single circle of
lazy people and people who aren't
willing to think through things
themselves the next few likes are me
liking metallooly which is Lily tenant's
alternative account and she's it's a
Twitter it's not really a podcast set of
audio clips uh called the morning teapot
which are great they're very funny uh
insightful Reflections as we would
expect from Luling and so yeah short
audio clips go to meta luly or one word
at metallooly and listen to her audio
her audio contributions to making
Twitter a nice funny thoughtful place I
then liked
a tweet from Martin Balor Martin Bowser
particle Quantum physicist associate
professor at Durham University anyway
he's tweeted a simple question quote so
this Wormhole is it in the room with us
right now
end quote so you know that that's
riffing on the Trope that is uh
what psychologists do to people you know
if they're having hallucinations you
know he's the he's the ghost or is the
demon in the room with us right now it's
a fictional entity
is the Wormhole I like to tweet from
Rita panahi
a Rita panahise and Australian
journalists that I tend to follow she's
quite insightful she's a well-respected
uh globally she's quite liked by you
know people like Ben Shapiro and others
anyway she's said sweet Jesus the
deliberate dimwittedness is pathetic and
why has she said this well in response
to a tweet from someone called Noah
Smith who is a writer on sub stack he's
got you know over a quarter of a million
followers so he's uh he's well known
he's followed by some people I follow
and anyway he said quote I am still not
sure why I'm supposed to care the
slightest bit about Hunter Biden or his
laptop end quote
so he's pretending not to realize why
you should care of course as Douglas
Murray said change the rules you know
turn this not into a story about Hunter
Biden and his laptop and all these
Shenanigans but instead to Donald Trump
Jr if the same situation was true of
Donald Trump Jr he had this laptop with
all sorts of nasty Behavior apparently
being you know evidence of that on the
laptop would it be out of the headlines
of course it wouldn't we know the answer
to that there's a double standard
operating here now whatever side of
politics you're on you shouldn't
appreciate a double standard well at
least you should appreciate that exists
right now but it shouldn't it shouldn't
exist and so you know read a panahon is
having a go at Noah Smith for
being deliberately dimwittedness in
other words pretending not to know why
anyone would care about this including
himself
but of course he would be I kind of
agree it's not important but what I
recognize is that if it was anyone from
Trump's family that was smoking crack
and sleeping with prostitutes and there
was evidence of this
we know that that that would be
headlines in the New York Times on CNN
they would never stop talking about it
but because it's Hunter Biden because
it's Joe Biden's son we don't hear about
it barely okay it's only the
conservative media
so yes Rita's quite right I liked a
tweet from again I think it's mattis's
name he's calling himself natural
general intelligence in response to
Michael Nielsen and that unusual
question he asked why some statements
are enormously more important than
others of comparable length well Matt I
think his name's Matt has said let's
just ask the question why should length
be connected to importance quite right
exactly you know only got one like from
me but but deserves more attention and
that's that's exactly right Carlos De La
Guardia another great papyrian online uh
has great tweets and you know
contributes a lot to the Twitter
discussion uh well worth following is
that at
d-e-l-a-3499
and he tweeted you know all about
knowledge and various things but but the
tweet that I liked in particular of his
he said quote knowledge can be like the
world in different ways you can capture
and express different kinds of
regularities in nature yes and this is a
a long thread of tweets that he had uh
writing about a book that he's reading
called The Joy of abstraction by Eugenia
Ching go to Carlos's account for more
about that I liked hey oh this is
wonderful I liked a tweet by a person
called Carol Roth
at Carol
c-a-r-o-l-j-s Roth r-o-t-h one word and
she has retweeted something from 2012
because she said yes today is the
10-year anniversary of the muskets tweet
and she had tweeted to Piers Morgan now
Piers Morgan the British journalist who
yeah it's hard to put him on the
Spectrum politically yeah he's all over
the place I don't find that he has a
coherent world view this is always the
problem
with people who you know sort of upset
both sides and think that this is a sign
that they're on the right track it could
just mean they're completely wrong what
it what it indicates to me is there's a
there could be not always but there
could be a lack of principle there
they're not picking aside because they
they don't have principles that align
with either side but in general you will
and general people will and one of the
difficulties I have sometimes with
objectivism
say you're on Brook much as I respect
him highly respect you're on Brook uh
you know he's very critical of the left
he's very critical to write I agree with
it most of the time but I think that
sometimes he might strive a little too
hard to be balanced
and has a go at the conservatives
sometimes rightly but sometimes I think
well look if you're forced to choose
between the coercion that exists on the
left and the sometimes coercion that
happens on the right and you're a
defender of capitalism look you have to
accept that the conservatives do cleave
more closely to free market capitalism
yeah of course they're not perfect
no one's going to be perfect while
you're on Brook's lines unless we you
know brought iron Rand back from the
dead and had her run for the presidency
or had one of his philosophers from the
Iran Society or something running for
the presidency no one's going to meet
his strict criteria and so forced to
choose I'd say well look I I I think
maybe the Ted Cruz of the world wrong as
they are going to be better better than
you know the Joe bidens of the world
that's just me
so I think that you people can sometimes
strive a little too hard to be
even-handed not recognizing The Virtue
and the people that they generally
disagree with and to find places where
they agree okay let's put that aside
separate issue p is Morgan is someone
who you can't easily categorize but I
think he's not in the same way that
you're on Brook can't be categorized
you're on Brook definitely has
principles absolutely
Piers Morgan have categorized because
perhaps of his lack of principles lack
of a coherent
philosophy that underpins the
perspective he tends to hold so whatever
sometimes people accuse him of being too
conservative sometimes not but he
engaged with this person Carol Roth uh
camerothy is
I don't know she's an author an author
of some kind
171 000 followers and the exchange went
like this between her and Piers more and
Piers Morgan tweeted quote the second
amendment was devised with muskets in
mind not high-powered handguns and
assault rifles fact and carols responded
it was devised for people to be able to
protect themselves with the same type of
Weaponry used by those from whom they
might need protection and Pierce said
where exactly does it say that in the
Constitution must have missed it
question mark
and carols responded
there's almost Timeless in its
Perfection she's just said right next to
the word muskets end quote which is
perfect what she means there is of
course the word muskets does not appear
in the Second Amendment
and so if Piers Morgan saying well the
reason the second amendment was devised
was because it was supposed to protect
the rights of people with muskets
but hold on the the Second Amendment the
Constitution doesn't mention the word
muskets at all so if you're going to
make start making claims about you know
the second amendment being made for
muskets or people with muskets or
anything like that then I can come back
with any old Claim about what the Second
Amendment is actually about okay Carol's
saying it's actually about
to enable people to protect themselves
with Weaponry against people who've got
the same type of weapons and peers is
objective to that well it doesn't say
that in the Second Amendment well it
doesn't say anything about muskets
either okay it says that you know the
Second Amendment talks about militias
and whatever and people generally
interpret this as you know the right to
bear arms what kind of arms oh yeah okay
then we get into a question what kind of
arms is it muskets or is it any kind of
weapon that allows you to defend
yourself
from other people from the government
from tyrannical people well
a knowledgeable understanding of this
thing is is indeed about tyranny it's
indeed about protecting a citizen being
able to protect themselves against
tyranny tyranny of the government
that's the whole idea of the American
experiment
protecting themselves from tyranny you
know originally from the British tyranny
the British royal tyranny so again their
independence and so of course they they
they create it they created this new
system of government okay all of the
people by the people for all the people
you know that sort of stuff but anyway
it's a wonderful exchange there right
next to the word muskets she said
uh skipping to I liked a tweet from the
director of Ted which is one of the
places where David Deutsch of course has
become famous as via Ted and Chris
Anderson
uh you know the chairperson director of
Ted he has tweeted quote all the News
That's fit to print
I'm shocked which is the the byline of
the New York Times the Masthead and he's
gone on to say I'm shocked that the New
York Times appears so far to have had
exactly zero coverage
of chat GPT
surely the biggest Tech innovation of
the Year big win for Twitter on this one
the examples curated here have been
breathtaking end quote yes so chat GPT
is the thing that I've been referring to
throughout this podcast about how this
computer program is able to generate you
know the interesting bits of text
stories jokes poems and that kind of
thing and the New York Times hasn't
talked about it at all but the list of
things that the New York Times doesn't
talk about is long even though they're
newsworthy and the things that it does
talk about that aren't newsworthy is
also long it's a sad it's a sad thing
this is a so-called paper of record as I
used to call themselves I liked uh tweet
by Elon Musk saying great work by the
Twitter spaces team in response to he
was on Twitter spaces Twitter spaces is
the sort of radio version of Twitter
people can get together in a room
effectively and talk you know via audio
one person has the microphone at a time
and they they just talk that's Twitter's
version of of Clubhouse if you know what
that is and Elon was on his own Twitter
spaces and I I listened in for a bit of
that so I quite liked it you know I
liked to tweet by a fellow called arson
atrovsky who's a human rights lawyer and
he said quote Israelis should never have
to apologize for defending ourselves
full stop
uh and and I agree I couldn't agree more
I'd like to tweet from a friend of mine
Mason Hellcat who
um has done a send-up a parody he's a
comedian a Mason Mason is a comedian
stand-up comedian he does sketch comedy
and various other things and uh he's
done a little sketch on the news the
Australian news reporting on water
restrictions he's sending out water
restrictions we often have water
restrictions here in Australia because
of droughts but recently it's been
floods it's been a lot of floods and so
he's he's doing um water un restrictions
as if you have to use more water than
usual the water restrictions are usually
you must use less water than usual
anyway so Mason has done a send up both
of them the news reader And the reporter
the kind of reporters and news readers
that you get in Australia so anyway so
that's that's Mason look up Mason
Hellcat on Twitter all one word
m-a-s-o-n-h-e-l-l-c-a-t I then lie act
tweet from Nasim taleb the Sim Talib a
rare interaction with David Deutsch
which I think a lot of people are
waiting for this crossover of all things
because taleb is often expressed
admiration for Carl Poppa
uh uh and anyway without going into the
details here someone tweeted it David
Deutsch about or tweeted it both Nasim
and David about again chat GPT about you
know what would happen between an
encounter a conversation between David
Deutsch and Nasim to lib
and what the AI has produced is a
conversation that David Dodge disagreed
with the sentiment of
he said lies damned lies
and among other things he said some
other things and then taleb has said he
agrees with David Deutsch's criticism
and then he's he's posted his own essay
on on certain aspects of epistemology
and David has said about his I say nice
essay I largely agree
the key to AGI will have to be something
well defined yet informal and he goes on
from there and taleb says coming from
you a worthy compliment among other
things and I've liked that it I I have
not seen although I don't follow a Talib
so it might be right it might I could be
just completely off here but I've only
tend to see to lib
that when he said something awful
various people
and here it's unusual because he's said
something nice to someone to David
Deutsch so that's that's lovely David
has managed to extract a compliment from
Nasim to lib among all of David
Deutsch's other powers or this
this is one that truly deserves
everyone's respect I've then liked uh a
name that Lex Friedman has shared I
don't know if he created this meme or
not
I don't think he did what what he said
firstly is he said struggle and failure
are a fundamental part of learning if
you Embrace this fact it starts being
fun end quote which I agree with and
he's also reprinted a meme and the meme
is of Sheldon Cooper from the television
show Big Bang Theory and he's holding a
paper what is no doubt a paper of
physics I presume he's reading through
and he's screaming at it and one panel
after another he's just screaming why
why why
and he's unhappy increasingly unhappy
and then in the final panel he's happy
again and he just says oh that's why
and you know if it's titled science
students science students which is
exactly right you know you do science
and of course you go I don't understand
I don't understand I don't understand ah
now I get it now I get it so that moment
of of coming to an understanding of
something skipping a few more and I get
to liking responses of of people who
liked my tweet which probably comes just
outside of the weekend probably late
Sunday so I haven't included this but
well let me go to it generate a little
bit of interest and that tweet was
started the treat tweet thread began
with a tweet that said
quote this is me talking charging for
plastic bags is soft corporatism namely
a retail policy government expresses
support of when it should have no
opinion
the article in the Express Newspaper
says Tesco quote don't make money from
the sale of carrier bags that's
misleading at best perhaps a deliberate
lie my next Tweeter said because just to
emphasize so that tweet I've quoted the
article and the article has said that
Tesco has said they don't make money
from the sale of carrier bags but you go
to the article and you you find the
quote who are they quoting at Tesco are
they quoting some marketing manager
fellow and he never said that he never
said that Tesco don't make money from
the sale of carrier bags what he
actually said was
we do not want to make money from the
sale of carrier bags
and I've explained that
quote the words want to make all the
difference no end quote there's a big
difference between actually making money
or not from the sale of plastic bags and
not wanting to make money
that's very different things you might
not want to make money
still make lots of money or you might
not you might say you don't want to make
money but still do which I think is
what's really going on okay
then anyway I've gone on with a bit of a
tweet storm on this kind of stuff saying
how
you know all you know many countries in
the Western World in particular
Australia United States as well as
Britain all have governments getting
involved in trying to coerce Strongarm
whatever words you want to use
retailers in charging for plastic bags
in some way shape or form now I've said
a lot of things about this but but
basically you know amongst other things
I said that you know in response to some
people who are discussing my my thread I
said
I used single-use bags as garbage bags
I'm not alone in this they never were
single-use bags when replaced by
reusable bags for a fee my habits didn't
change I just paid more for the higher
quality bag if I didn't then I'd be
buying yet more plastic I.E garbage bags
and quite so yeah this whole
environmental movement of taking away
garbage bags I I found it in my personal
case I've become it's become more
environmentally unfriendly I need to
have a bag as everyone does to put your
rubbish in and so I used to think well
it's a great idea for me to just you
know it's a win-win the the the the the
supermarket gives me a plastic bag I
then use the bag to wrap up my rubbish
and then that gets thrown away
everything gets thrown away in one big
bundle but now what happens is well
instead of having this flimsy plastic
bag they give me a more robust bag a
stronger bag that is more than single
use but in fact I get the same number of
users out of it to carry my shopping
home and then to use as a as a rubbish
bag after all if I didn't use it as a
rubbish bag I still need a rubbish bag I
still need somewhere to put the garbage
so am I going to purchase a packet of
bags as you know labeled garbage bags
well I could do that of course
something's stopping me from doing that
it just means I'm doubling up then so
now I'm buying buying more plastic
whereas I I used to just have a flimsy
plastic bag it makes no sense I think
most people did reuse those so-called
single-use plastic bags usually some
people just threw them into the garbage
but I think those people were in a
minority this is more about as I
insinuated my thread there I guess a
reasonable explanation is the shopping
center supermarkets you know CEOs
whoever have meetings with politicians
and then say things like you know the
politicians say what are you doing about
climate change what are your green
policies and you know you need to have
some green policies and they they say to
the politician well you know how about
we uh we're trying to reduce plastic bag
use what if we charge for plastic bags
that would dissuade people from doing
this if you pass legislation we'll be
sure to follow that legislation and so
this is what happens you know so it's a
win-win for the government
and the supermarkets the government gets
to say look at what we're doing look at
how we're telling the the companies to
try and reduce their use of plastic by
encouraging their their customers not to
use so much plastic in the form of bags
and and the supermarket gets to say oh
look at us you know we're now charging
for plastic bags isn't that good that's
preventing our customers from using
plastic bags
now meanwhile the portal customers left
on the sidelines there and all that
happens with them is they just pay more
for plastic bags they don't reduce that
amount of plastic they still need a bag
to carry their shopping home they still
need a bag to throw out their rubbish
with nothing has changed except now
they're paying more money so again it's
a win-win for the government and it's a
loss for the customer so that's it
that's the end of the experiment so to
speak the whole point of which was to
tweet more than normal and to see what
came back was I going to have a negative
experience well no I haven't it's been
overall entirely positive entirely
positive I mean somewhere between
neutral and it's highly positive I
should say there was nothing negative
there and nothing came back to me that
was negative now again I fully admit I
don't have that many followers and it's
got to be a function of how many
followers you have as to what your
experience is going to be like at least
in part but it's also going to be what
kind of conversations you will engage in
who you surround yourself with what
communities you're a part of on Twitter
how you use the platform is going to
shape what your experience is
but it's not a cesspool it's not a
terrible place it's not falling apart
it's not going to rack and ruin it
remains as it has always been a place
that you can make for yourself just like
any other social media platform yes
there are Corners where people are
lurking that aren't all that Pleasant
yes there are certain people who have
very loud voices and very large
audiences that say things they shouldn't
say
but it's incumbent upon the rest of us I
suppose to try and Foster the conditions
under which we can continue a tradition
of criticism to continue a way in which
to elevate the voices that should be
elevated and to criticize the voices
that need to be criticized in terms that
allow us to show that certain voices
maybe don't deserve to be elevated to
the heights that they sometimes are so
you can have a good experience that's
all I'm saying that no matter how often
I spend on Twitter if I really try hard
to spend lots of time there I didn't
find myself becoming addicted to have a
compulsion to go back and check maybe
that's just me I also didn't find that I
was becoming anxious or worried or upset
about the behavior of anyone else so yes
I think it's quite possible to continue
to have a good experience on Twitter
doesn't mean you should spend lots and
lots of time there well no more so than
doing anything else you should spend
just as much time as is fun to be there
if it ceases to be fun then don't go
back I mean it's a simple heuristic for
absolutely any activity one would engage
in in regular life okay I think that's
enough for now until next time bye-bye